V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASWE-0056.md

Reviewer: DONE

---
title: Root/Jailbreak Detection Not Implemented
id: MASWE-0056
alias: root-jailbreak-detection

> requirement: "The app terminates if a rooted/jailbroken device is detected."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requirement: "The app detects if it runs on a rooted/jailbroken device and reacts appropriately."
```

platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [R]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0056
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0003, MAS-ATTACK-0005, MAS-ATTACK-0065]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-RESILIENCE-1, MSTG-RESILIENCE-8]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-RESILIENCE-1, MASVS-RESILIENCE-4]

>   cwe: [693]

Author: @sgIOlas was removing this one in other MASWEs; do you think we should remove it everywhere else or are the some MASWEs where it really applies?

Reviewer: @cpholguera CWE 693 says:

```
The product does not use or incorrectly uses a protection mechanism that provides sufficient defense against directed attacks against the product.
```

I agree with the first part; root detection is a protection mechanism, but it should be viewed as additional defense-in-depth, and it does not by itself provide "sufficient defense against directed attacks against the product".

There is a relevant CVE: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-30111

It references CWE-1326 https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1326.html

>   cwe: [693]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cwe: [1326]
```
